.\"
.\" Man page for \fBYzis\fP 
.\" Copyright (C) TANGUY Arnaud <arn.tanguy@gmail.com>
.\"

.TH  \fBYzis\fP 1 "February 12, 2009" "Version 1.0-beta" "\fBYzis\fP Manual"
.SH NAME 
\fBYzis\fP \- A powerful vi-like text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nyzis
[options] [filename(s)]
.br
.B qyzis
[options] [filename(s)]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBYzis\fP is a vi-like editor inspired by vim. \fBYzis\fP aims to be a powerful, fast editor with all of Vim's features and hopefully, at some point, more. 
.br
\fBYzis\fP is composed of a library called libyzis, and graphic frontends : nyzis for the terminal, qyzis for a graphic window ...
As vim, \fBYzis\fP is a modal editor, so it behaves differently according to the mode used. The main modes are :
.TP
\fBInsert mode\fP
This mode allow you to type text. You can enter to this mode using "i" (when in Command mode), exit from it using "escape".
.TP
\fBCommand mode\fP
In this mode, all the keys you press are interpreted in order to modify the text (delete words, sentences, move...). Press <Esc> to enter in this mode.
.TP
\fBVisual mode\fP
In this mode you can select text by moving with motions keys. To enter visual mode, press "v" (when in Command mode). 
.TP
\fBEx mode\fP
This mode is quite similar to a shell : you enter commands (functions names, setting variables...), and \fBYzis\fP interprets them. To enter in this mode, use ":" when you are in command mode
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP
\fB-h\fP , \fB--help\fP 
Show the command line help
.TP
\fB-v\fP , \fB--version\fP 
Show the current version of \fBYzis\fP
.TP
\fB-c\fP <some keys>
Execute immediately the key presses when \fBYzis\fP starts, as if they were typed by the user.
.TP
\fB-s\fP <file>
Execute a lua script at when \fBYzis\fP starts.

Ex : nyzis -c "iHello world !<ESC>o" will open nyzis with "Hello world !" wrote, and the cursor will be on a new line in insert mode.
.SH FILES
Here are the main files for \fBYzis\fP :
.TP 
~/.yzis/init.lua
This file is parsed during startup, any option (except syntax highlighting) can be set there or you can define your own functions there 
.TP
~/.yzis/hl.lua
This file is specific to syntax highlighting customization.  
.SH SEE ALSO
vim(1), vimtutor(1)
.br
The official wiki which contains general informations about \fBYzis\fP, full documentation : http://www.yzis.org
.SH AUTHORS
The main authors are :
\fBThomas Capricelli\fP, \fBPhilippe Fremy\fP, \fBMickael Marchand\fP and \fBLoic Pauleve\fP
.br
A list of others contributors is available at http://labs.freehackers.org/repositories/stats/yzis
.SH LICENCE
.TP
\fBnyzis\fP, \fBqyzis\fP and \fBkyzis\fP :
Released under the terms of GNU General Public License. Please
read the COPYING file for more information. 
.TP
\fBlibyzis\fP 
Published under the terms of the LGPL. 
.TP
Copyright (C) 2003-2009
.br
Mickael Marchand <marchand@kde.org>
.br
Thomas Capricelli <orzel@freehackers.org> 
.br 
Loic Pauleve <panard@inzenet.org>
.br 
Philippe Fremy <philippe@freehackers.org>
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug, please report at http://labs.freehackers.org/projects/yzis/issues
.SH HISTORY
\fBYzis\fP was created to have the power of vim integrated with KDE. As Vim code base was not adapted to be used with graphical applications, \fBYzis\fP was created from scratch.
See http://www.yzis.org/History for more details.
